# Getting The Right Setup  
## Hardware Considerations  
The first thing you need to consider is if you want to create a dedicated mining rig/farm, or if you want to build a gaming computer that you can also mine with.  If you want to create a gaming PC, you're definitely going to need a solid graphics card.  If you're going the dedicated mining route, you need to decide if you want to graphics cards to mine, or if you want to use ASIC miners.  
### Graphics Cards  
  If you've decided you want to use graphics card mining, feel free to skip the following section on ASIC miners.  If you're still not sure, keep reading then make your decision.  

  Whether you want to mine on the side with your main gaming rig, or if you want to set up a dedicated mining rig/farm, using graphics cards as your mining hardware is an excellent option.  The way that GPUs are designed to handle work loads makes them especially efficient at solving the complex math problems involved in mining crypto.  Please, do not consider trying to use your CPU to mine as well, you will end up losing money because they are so inefficient.  Now, the question is, what graphics card should you buy?  If you're building a computer with a primary purpose of gaming and you have the budget, you should definitely consider a newer 3000-series graphics card from Nvidia or an RDNA 2 (RX 6000-series) graphics card from AMD.  The past year has seen massive improvements in GPU technology, and this generation of graphics cards has been one of the biggest performance leaps with price consideration we've ever seen.  Due to industry-wide chip shortages, these are extremely difficult to purchase, so don't despair if you can't get your hands on one.  last-gen 2000 series cards from Nvidia, Navi (RX 5700-series) cards from AMD, and even high-end 1000-series Nvidia card like the 1080 TI can still be competent for both gaming and mining.

  If you're going the dedicated mining route, the main things you should consider are: how much money will the card make you per day, and how long the card will take to pay for itself.  The following is a great article from [Tom's Hardware](https://www.tomshardware.com/) ranking the 10 best mining graphics cards based on mining performance bench marks, daily profit, price, and time to break even (pay for itself):
[Best Mining GPUs Benchmarked and Ranked](https://www.tomshardware.com/best-picks/best-mining-gpus-benchmarked-and-ranked)  

  If that's too much to take in, my personal recommendations would be the Radeon VII for purely mining, or the RTX 3080 if you plan to game as well.  With an initial retail price of $699 (they can usually be found for significantly less, beign almost 2 years old) and potential daily earnings of $11.71 (meaning just under 60 days to brea even), the Radeon VII seems to nail the sweet spot between initial cost, daily profit, and time to break even.  The RTX 3080 is hands-down the best graphics card for gaming at its considerably reasonable retail price of $699, and it has a very high potential earnings of $13.23 per day.  Of course, second-hand prices on ebay are incredibly inflated right now thanks to shortages, so that changes what you need to consider.  You may even want to wait until these shortages are over to get into mining, or hope you get lucky enough to buy a card at retail price.  
